java c
ECON   352   International   Finance
Assignment   1
August   8th,   2024
•      This   assignment   is   due   on   Thursday,   August   22th   at   3:00   pm.
•      It   must   be   submitted   electronically   via   CANVAS   as   a   single   pdf file.
•    It   is   worth   15   points   or   15%   of   the   final   grade.
•    Please,   answer   ALL   THREE   (3)   questions   available.   Each   question   is   worth   5   points.
•    Please,   use   appropriate   software   to   produce   your   plots   and   to   write   your   answers.
•    Make   sure   that   all   your   sources   of   information   are   properly   cited.    Carefully   document any   manupulations   with   data   you   made   to   obtain   the   plots.
Question      1.    (Relative   PPP) In   this   question   we   will   be   testing   an   assumption   of   our   model   of   exchange   rate   determination.   In   particular, you   will   be   showing   that   the   PPP   assump-   tion   often   fails   in   the   short   run,   emphasizing   the   importance   of   the   unifying   approach   discussed   in   Topic   4.       Go   to   the   website   of   Federal   Reserve   Economic   Data    (FRED)   at   https://research.stlouisfed.org/fred2/   and   download   annual   data   for   Consumer   Price   Indices   for   the   United   States,   Japan,   and   Canada.    In   addition,   download   annual   data for the   U.S.   dollar   exchange   rate with the   Canadian   dollar   and   Japanese yen   going   back   to   1971.    Put   each   data   series   into   a   separate   column   in   a   new   spreadsheet.    (Hint:    the   following   series   should   suffice:
•    Organization   for   Economic   Co-operation   and   Development,   Consumer   Price   Index:   All   Items:    Total   for   Japan      [CPALTT01JPA657N],   retrieved   from   FRED,   Federal Reserve   Bank   of   St.    Louis; https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/CPALTT01JPA657N,   August   6,   2024.
•    Organization   for   Economic   Co-operation   and   Development,   Consumer   Price   Index:   All   Items:   Total   for   Canada   [CPALTT01CAA657N], retrieved   from   FRED,   Federal Reserve   Bank   of   St.   Louis; https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/CPALTT01CAA657N,   August   6,   2024.
•    Organization   for   Economic   Co-operation   and   Development,   Consumer   Price   Index:   All   Items:    Total   for   United   States   [CPALTT01USA657N],   retrieved   from   FRED,
Federal   Reserve   Bank   of   St.   Louis; https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/CPALTT01USA657N,   August   6,   2024.
•    Board   of Governors   of the   Federal   Reserve   System   (US),   Japanese Yen to   U.S.   Dollar   Spot   Exchange   Rate   [AEXJPUS],   retrieved   from   FRED,   Federal   Reserve   Bank   of   St.   Louis;   https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/AEXJPUS,   August   6,   2024.•    Board   of   Governors   of   the   Federal   Reserve   System    (US),   Canadian   Dollars   to   U.S.   Dollar   Spot   Exchange   Rate   [AEXCAUS],   retrieved   from   FRED,   Federal   Reserve   Bank   of   St.   Louis;   https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/AEXCAUS,   August   6,   2024.)(a)   We   will   want   to   check   our   assumption   for   relative   PPP   (that   the   difference   in   inflation   between   each   of   these   countries   and   the   United   States   s代 写ECON 352 International Finance Assignment 1 2024C/C++
代做程序编程语言hould   equal   the   change   in   the   exchange   rate).       To    do    this    you    must   first    calculate   the   percent   change   in   the   spot   exchange   rate   for   each   year.    Do   this   for   Japan   and   Canada   with   respect   to   the   United   States.   In both cases, when did the largest appreciation occur?   The largest depreciation?
(b)    Now   check   relative   PPP   as   stated   in   Equation   3-2(14-2)   reproduced   below:
   Compute   the   difference   in   annual   rate   of   inflation   in   these   two   pairs   of   countries   (Canada and   the   United   States,   and   Japan   and   the   United   States)   and   see   if   it   is   equal   to   the   annual   change   in   the   exchange   rate   for   the   pair.       Create    a    new   column   showing   the   magnitude   of   the   deviation   from   relative   PPP.   Next,   compute   the   mean   and   standard deviation   for   each   country   pair   over   the   sample   period.   Are   the   means   what   you   would   expect them to be   if PPP   holds   in the   long   run?   What   is   the   largest   deviation   from   our   PPP   assumption?
(c)    Create   a   line   graph   showing   the   deviations   from   relative   PPP   plotted   against   time   in   each case.    Does   it   appear   that   these   deviations   are   trending   toward   zero   over   time?    What   appears   to   be   the   longest   time   before   a   deviation   from   PPP   returns   to   zero?
Question    2.      (Hyperinflations)   Consider   any   two   hyperinflation   episodes   that   took   place   after   World   War   II.   Make   a   short   PowerPoint   presentation   (5-6   slides) that   describe   the key   features   of   these   events,   their   probable   causes   and   consequences   for   the   economy.   Complement   your   slides   with   a   brief   discussion   (1   page).    What   are   the   key   differences   between   the   two   hypeinflation   episodes?      What   are   the   key   similarities?      How   did   the   episodes   end?   Which   policies   seemed   to   work   and   which   seemed   to   fail?
Question      3.    (Absolute   PPP)   Consider   Figure   3-3   in   the   textbook   (Slide   15,   Topic   3).
(a)    Use   the   data   collected   in   Question    1   to   replicate   Figure   3-3   for   the   U.S.   and   Canada.   Plot   in   the   same   graph   the   evolution   of   the   nominal   exchange   rate   and   the   relative   price levels   of the   two   countries.    In   a   separate   figure,   plot   the   evolution   of the   real   exchange   rate.       Does    absolute    PPP    seem   to   hold?       Why?       (Hint:       The    price    data    collected    in   Question    1   represent   annual   percentage   changes   in   consumer   price   indices    (CPI),   i.e.   CPI   inflation   rates.    In   order   to   construct   price   levels,   assume   that   in   year   2000:    (i)   a   consumption   basket   in   U.S.   costs   USD   100.00   (PUS,2000    =    100)   and   (ii)   absolute   PPP   holds:   PCAN,2000   = PUS,2000/E   USD/CAD,2000   .   Now, you   can   compute   the   price   levels   for all   years,   using   the   definition   of   CPI   inflation,e.g.    PUS,2001    = PUS,2000   (1 + πUS,2001)).





         
加QQ：99515681  WX：codinghelp  Email: 99515681@qq.com
